1.	Arduino UNO
2.	Soil moisture sensor
3.	Liquid Crystal Display
4.	Potentiometer
5.	mh sensor
6.	Breadboard
7.	DC Motor
8.	Connecting Wires

ARDUINO UNO
●	Arduino is used for programming and controlling the sensor, relay, motor speed and input and output of an system.
●	In this project we have used Arduino UNO for programming and to receive signals from the humidity and moisture sensors.
●	The Arduino UNO consists of input supply of 5V and ground, programming input, sending pin and receiving pin.
●	An IC chip is used as a memory or input storage device for the Arduino UNO.
●	The Arduino UNO board is mainly based on microcontroller ATMEGA 328P which has 32kb flash memory for sorting code.

SOIL MOISTURISING SENSOR
●	In this wireless based control system, this sensor helps to monitor the moisture of the soil.
●		The sensor used here is LM393 . Normally, a moisturising sensor for soil includes four ports, namely A0, D0 , Ground and VCC.
●	These sensors is connected to the controller unit directly.
●		To find the Volumetric Water Content(VWC) a soil moisturising sensor is used. The power requirement is low here in this sensor.
●	Some of the applications are Irrigation scheduling and water-plant-soil interaction studies.
 
MOTOR DRIVER
●		L298N Motor Driver Dual H-Bridge. The L298N Motor Driver Module is a high voltage Dual H-Bridge manufactured by ST company.
●		H-bridge drivers are used to drive inductive loads that requires forward and reverse function with speed control such as DC Motor, and Stepper Motor.
●	A motor driver is a small Current Amplifier whose function is to take a low-current control signal and then turn it into a higher-current signal that can drive a motor.
  
BUZZER
•	A Buzzer or beeper is audio signalling device, which may be mechanical, electrochemical, piezoelectric (piezo or short).
•	Typical users of buzzers or beepers includes alarm devices, timers and confirmation user input such as mouse click or keystroke.

LIGHT EMITTING DIODE (LED)
•	A light emitting diode is a semiconductor source electric bulb that emits light whenever the current flows through it.
•	Electrons in the semiconductor recombine with the electron holes, releasing energy in the photons.
 
MH SENSOR SERIES FLYING-FISH
●		It is an analogue board contains a comparator and a port to give both an analog and digital(threshold output).
●	The water/moisture detectors utilise a 2 pin header which can allow us to reuse the comparator board for any particular device we have available.

BREADBOARD
●	A breadboard is a device which helps in interconnecting the electronic components by inserting their lead terminal into the holes and connecting by the wire.

 MOTOR
●		Motor	is	electronic	device	which	converts	electrical	energy	into mechanical energy..
●	Motor helps in pumping the water to irrigation field.
●	DC motor is used for this system where it can take upto 5V.

HW BATTERY
•	HW Battery or High Watt Battery is electrochemical energy which is converted into electrical energy to run the DC motor when there is need more voltage supply to run the motor.

ARDUINO IDE
•	Arduino consists of both a physical programmable circuit board (often referred to  as  a  microcontroller)  and  a  piece  of  software, or IDE (Integrated Development Environment) that runs on your computer, used to write and upload computer code to the physical board.
•	The Arduino language is merely a set of C/C++ functions




